NateMUD
===============

NateMUD is a highly configurable, highly performant MUD implemented in the Go programming language.

Currently it is in development, but the overarching premise is that a MUD should be configurable and runnable without any programming knowledge. Too many mud systems require you to write code to change how they work. Not only is that very likely to introduce bugs, it also restricts muds to be run by people who know how to code.

NateMUD is intended to be fully configurable through text files - everything from the name of the MUD, to what emotes are available, to how ability scores and powers work.

About Nate
----------

I have over 13 years of professional development experience, and was extensively into MUDs during and after college. I also have been playing tabletop RPGs for over 20 years. I have an extensive collection of tabletop RPGs and "German" board games that influence my thinking. I'm approaching this project with an eye towards game design, with the hope that I can give a framework to other game developers for creating their own unique game.

Currently Implemented
-----------

- Logging in (any username or password will work, but simultaneous logins with duplicate names will be prevented)
- Movement (8 compass directions plus up and down)
- smile (an emote that can be targetted at no one, yourself, or someone else
- quit
- look (or l) shows the room contents (though you can't look *at* something yet)
- say
- tell
- The world is an autogenerated 10x10 square. Boring, but it's a good test bed
- multiple users can connect and interact
- will run using all currently available CPUs as necessary

Implementation notes
-------------

- There are no locks per se.  Concurrency is handled by goroutines communicating via channels.  Some of this will change, as locks will simplify some code paths.
- In the case of needing to modify two objects synchronously, we always modify the one with the lower Id first (a version of lock ordering) to prevent deadlocks
- There are no tests yet (boo!) but they're next on the list

 
To build and run
-----------------------

go get github.com/natefinch/natemud
run natemud.exe

This will run the mud on port 8888 of your current machine. To change the port, use -p <port>

Bugs
---------

The mud currently assumes line endings are always \r\n. If your telnet client only sends \n, then you'll lose the last character of any input.  If your telnet client sends something else entirely, then it just won't work.

Connecting with PuTTY in Telnet mode sends some garbage characters initially.. I haven't yet put time into figuring out how to handle those correctly. If you use PuTTY, choose "raw" as the connection type, and it'll work fine. Windows telnet works fine. I haven't tried other telnet clients.

I'm sure there's other problems that I haven't found yet.  Use at your own risk, etc.

License
-------------
MIT License


Test CLA (ignore, not real)
---------------
To get started, <a href="https://www.clahub.com/agreements/natefinch/natemud">sign the Contributor License Agreement</a>.
